# Chapter 2: Rights & responsibilities

*Employee ownership at Torchbox means the business is held in trust for
the benefit of all employees.*

### Co-owner rights

*As co-owners, we have the right to:*

1.  Be represented by elected Trustee Directors who hold the company to
    its purpose and values.

2.  Vote in Trustee Director elections and, if eligible, stand for
    election.

3.  Receive transparent communication on the company's financial
    performance and business strategy every quarter.

4.  Ask questions of leadership and receive honest answers, including
    through the Q&A system and other direct channels.

5.  Have our views listened to and taken seriously when we offer
    opinions, ideas or concerns.

6.  Share in our company's success through schemes like quarterly profit
    share and the co-owner bonus, when the business performs well.

7.  Be paid fairly in line with published salary bands and pay ratio
    commitments.

8.  Work in an environment built on inclusion, dignity and mutual
    respect.

### **2. Responsibilities of ownership**

*Co-ownership means playing an active part with curiosity, care and
responsibility.*

As co-owners, we commit to:

2.1 Stay informed by reading company updates and contributing via
surveys, Q&A, one-to-ones and team discussions.

2.2 Share our informed opinion, especially when opinions and feedback
are requested.

2.3 Support Torchbox's purpose and values through our day-to-day work.

2.4 Recognise the contributions of others and help create a supportive
team environment.

2.5 Take responsibility for our commitments and their impact on clients,
colleagues and the business.

2.6 Stay open to change and share what we learn to help us grow
together.

2.7 Be proactive in improving our practice and seeking out ways to grow.

2.8 Consider the commercial impact of our decisions and actions. As
co-owners, we share responsibility for the financial health of the
business, balancing our values with sustainability and long-term
viability.

### 

### **3. Working together**

*A work environment where openness, trust, and collaboration help us all
thrive.*

Co-owners are expected to:

3.1 Communicate directly with positive intent, even when it might be
controversial.

3.2 Collaborate across teams with openness and trust, and in the
assumption that all co-owners are acting in good faith for the benefit
of all co-owners.

3.3 Create space for learning together by offering thoughtful feedback
and receiving it openly.

3.4 Speak up when something doesn't feel right or is inconsistent with
our values.

3.5 Help others succeed by sharing knowledge and working through
challenges together.

3.6 Be scrupulously honest in their dealings with the company and with
each other, and never seek to gain from the company any more than they
sincerely believe is fair.

3.7 Treat competitors with respect, maintaining friendly, professional
relationships where possible, while upholding fair and healthy
competition.

### 4. Contributing to impact

*Our purpose is to empower positive changemakers - we each have a
responsibility to help deliver that.*

Co-owners are expected to:

4.1 Contribute to work that enables social, environmental or public
benefit, whether through client work or through the systems and support
that make it possible.

4.2 Look for ways to improve the effectiveness and impact of what we do
for our clients and find ways to deliver more meaningful outcomes.

4.3 Play a role in improving Torchbox's impact as a company, including
its environmental footprint and contribution to the wider community.

Our purpose & principles
